# Chapter 1: Who will Answer my questions?
- notes:
    - ask the big questions, the fundamental questions, the universal ones in the context of a supportive community. 
    - out of asking the right questions and living the questions will come right actions that present themselves in compelling ways.
    - this requires discipline and courage: to "ask, seek, knock" until the door opens 
    - sometimes we feel so much fear and anxiety that our pain masks the quesions. once pain or confusion is framed or articulated by a quesiton, it must be lived rather than answered. the first task is to touch your own struggles, doubts, insecurities....to affirm your life as a quest.
    - painful questions must be raised, faced, and then lived. we must constantly avoid the temptation of offering or accepting simple answer. beware of easy answers or guarantees.
    - spiritual guidance calls for the creation of space in which the validity of the question does not depend on the availability of answers but on the questions capacity to open us to new perspectives and horizons. we must allow the daily experiences of life- joy, loneliness, fear, anxiety, insecurity, doubt, ignorance, need for affection- to be recognized as an essential part of the spiritual quest.
    - when god enters into the center of our lives to unask our illusion of possessing the final solutions and to disarm us with always deeper questions, we will not necessarily have an easier or simpler life, but certainly a life that is honest, courageous, and marked with the ongoing search for truth. sometimes in living the questions, answers are found.
    - * more often, as our questions and issues are tested and mature in solitude, the questions simply dissolve.* the greatest call of a spiritual director is to open the door to the opportunities for spiritual growth and sometimes to provide a glimpse of the great mysterious light behind the curtain of life and of the Lord who is the source of all knowing and the giver of life. to receive spiritual direction is to recognize that God does not solve our problems or answer all our questions, but leads us closer to the mystery of our existence where all questions cease.
- reflections on job:
    - the hardest thing to grasp is the notion of god inviting satan to bring this devastation on job.
    - also wrestling with what was the point, where was the justice here. what is the takeaway supposed to be?
    - it seems like this communicates that there aren't simple answers, and it actually goes against the notion of looking for simple answer or trying to fit God and his reasons into a box. it goes against us saying we deserve a reason, we deserve to understand everything God does, even when we are tempted with an easy reason. god power, his size, his unknowableness trumps my right to understand him.  there are mysteries that can remain mysteries because of who God is, and who we are. 
    - but it also makes clear that we should be honest with him, we should bring him the doubts, we can express our distaste with how things are, we can express our outrage, we can express our desire to die. infact the book of job lifts that up as an example, and condemns the friends who looked for simple, obvious answers. God rebukes Job's friends. They were all pious and trying to justify God in the face of evil but God will have none of it. God prefers Job's doubts to their faith.
    - https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/09/job-edward-l-greenstein/594769/
        - Maybe that’s what this God, faced with this Job, is telling us: Bring it all before him, the full grievance of your humanity. Bring him your condition, loudly. Let him have it.
    - apparently job is the oldest book of the bible. people have been trying to figure out why god lets bad things happen to good people for a really long time. it was also written at a time when the people would have known not much about god, trying to make sense of this concept? apparently its very dense hebrew and very hard to translate. also judiasm didn't have a concept of satan, i guess this was just written as "adversary".
    - it tosses out this notion that bad things are a consequence of our action or wroning god, or that good things are a reward for it.
    - https://www.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/6ylw9i/redditor_hasnt_heard_of_book_of_job_cadfan17/
    - reading this as allegory as opposed to history, part of ancient jewish teaching: https://www.reddit.com/r/Catholicism/comments/32dhaz/the_book_of_job_why_is_god_a_jerk/
    - a response to stephen fry on evil, job, and suffering: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=07AWWJiyAU8&ab_channel=BishopRobertBarron
    - interesting lecture on how to interpret and position the book of job: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nmnzEiCZhB0&ab_channel=tedhildebrandt
- Reflect and Journal
    - Identify and name a persistent question at this time in your life:
        - How do I experience more of God? What is my best way to know who God really is? How can God be both this infinite, cosmic being, the source of everything, unknowable. Yet also personable?
        - What does God want from me? How does God feel about me? Does he truly love and accept me? Have I chased him away, have I disgusted him to where he is ignoring me?
        - How do i move past the sense of just beleiving God exists and to a life that is more relational. How do I move from this sense of having more assurance about God being real, to life that is more actively growing. How do I move from the hypothetical theorizing and postulating, to a place of obedience and submissions. How do i deal with my deep seated fear of failure, and fear of sacrifice, and fear of supressing my desires. How do i truly submit to God fully, not on my own terms, not with just parts of my life, but with the stuff that i really want to hold on to. How do I submit to God, when I intellectually understand it, but my heart wants to continue living on its own terms, it wants to continue indulging as it wants. It tells me that these things really aren't that bad, that I am functioning ok right now, that I don't need to get that extreme.
        - What does it truly look like to be transformed by God, in a way that is not about white knuckling, is not about legalism and self-righteousness. How in the world do I overcome these long, deep-seeded desires that I have indulged so much and feel absolutely impossible for me to change? Where does God come into the picture, if we are required to leave these thigns behind? What standard does he require? What does his grace look like with our failings?
        - How do I read the bible? Can I have more assurance that it is reliable?  What is God trying to say to me through this ancient text written over 2000 years ago?
        - What part of the established evangelical teachings that I have been taught are wrong? What parts are things that I might not want to be true, but might actually be true?
        - How can Lara know God? What is the best path for someone who doesn't come from a spiritual background? How can we collectively share this journey together, authentically each from the unqiue place we are in right now?
        - Where is my spiritual home? Where is my spiritual safe haven? Where is the community where I can be fully myself, with all the doubts and questions and messiness of my life right now?
    - Reflect on a time in your life whe a painful or persistent question was dismissed or answered glibly by others?
        - Marital advice when Jenn and I were separated
        - The nature of predestination. The stones hammering all the reformed calvinist points with such certainty.
    - What impact did that response have on me?
        - it felt dismissive of the pain, of the turmoil, of the question itself. it felt rigid and inpersonal.
- Misc personal thoughts:
    - the practice of slowing down, of asking the important questions, or carving out quiet and solitude i feel like are so critical to living our full existence, to being intentional with our lives and our purpose. so much of modern life fights against that, jumping from moment to moment. fixating on work, fixating on fun, constantly being distracted. and the time flies by and its so easy to for it to evaporate without us every having contemplated and sought after the ultimate truths. i have to fight so hard to try to keep coming back to this place. to me this is what it really is to live the questions.
    - there is a point of reflection, of intentionality, of being uncomfortable, that i feel like our culture doesn't do. and its not going to happen on its own. and it is hard work.
    - i think one of the more damaging things for me in the brand of christianity that i lived in for most of my 20s, was this sense of certainty. of having the anwsers. of defining these boxes. beacuse it makes you feel safe and comfortable to have the clarify. in some sense it puts you in control. if you follow these thigns and beleive these things this will happen. the more life you live, if you are honest with yourself....it doesn't fit in those boxes. so it think an honest pursuit of this spiritual life, of trying to relate and trying to live a life that is pleasing to God, must be marked with a deep sense of humility, and a fundamental acknowledgement that life will be filled with unanswerable questions. but that the questions are worth pursuing...and that the pursuit can shape and grow us, even if we don't end up with clear answers.
    - to me right now, and over the past season, i think the times when i've felt most connected to God, when prayer times have felt most substantial and meaningful, is when I'm truly asking God the questions that speak from my heart. Not the canned, nice generic questions. But really looking inward, and having the courage to ask questions where the answer might have big immplications. looking inward and tapping into the deepest longings, the deepest doubts and fears and anger and bitterness that I hide away, and letting those build into the ultimate questions. and then taking them to God sincerely and humbly.
- Refined for sharing with Lara:
    - Questions:
        - How do I experience more of God? What is the best ways for me to know more about who God really is?
        - How do I move past this sense of beleiving he exists, to really opening myself up more to God? How do i move past the spiritual ptsd and all the fears that are holding me back. The fear of failring. The fear of living a muted existence that is defined by supressing my desires. The fear of getting caught up in this performative expression that isn't authentic to myself or authentic to God.
        - What does it look like to grow in my character, to grow in my faith, to take steps forward in a way that is not about white knuckling, is not driven my legalism, is not driven by appearances, but is authentic done with God's help and in a realtionship with him?
            - What is God asking of me right now?
        - How do I read the bible? Can I feel confident its from God? If it is, how do we interpet this ancient text written over 2000 years ago?
        - What part of the estblished evangelical teachings that I was taught are wrong? What parts are things that I might not want to be true, but might actually be true?
        - What is the path for you to know God, as someone who doesn't come from a spiritual background?
        - Where is my spiritual home? Hwere is the spiritual community where I can be fully myself with all the doubts and questions and messiness of my spiritual journey? Where is the community where both you and I can engage in this journey and experience God?
    - Personal thoughts:
        - Practice of slowing down, of reflection, of intentional living is so important to me. And its something that I have to really work to do, because it is not easy and my life is so full of distractions. But I feel like this is absolutely critical to me living a life that is about the things I actually want, rather than just floating from moment to moment passively.
        - One of the more damaging things of the brand of christianity I was in was the certainty, having the answers, defining these boxes. And it does make you feel safe and it gives you a sense of control. But the more you are honest, the more things don't always fit in a box. And so I think a spirtiual life should be marked by a deep sense of humility and a acknowledgement that life will be filled with these unasnwerable qusetions. But also that we don't need to have all the answers in order to engage with God and to move forward in our journeys. I am more comforatble with uncertainty that I ever have been in the past.
        - to me right now, and over the past season, i think the times when i've felt most connected to God, when prayer times have felt most substantial and meaningful, is when I'm truly asking God the questions that speak from my heart. Not the canned, nice generic questions. But really looking inward, and having the courage to ask questions where the answer might have big immplications. looking inward and tapping into the deepest longings, the deepest doubts and fears and anger and bitterness that I hide away, and letting those build into the ultimate questions. and then taking them to God sincerely and humbly.
        - one thing i thought of when thinking about lara and thinking about anxiety in my own life- the aspect of faith and of surrendering to Gods plan. and bringing him into the anxiety. thinking of the fact that i can engage with the creator of the universe, and that he cares about me, and cares about the small stuff. and that bringing that anxiety to him, in the midst of uncertainty can be a really powerful thing. recognizing that there is so much that is truly beyond our control and there is nothing we can do about that. maybe she could ask God to help her with her anxiety and to help her know how to bring it to him?
    - Key quotes:
        - sometimes we feel so much fear and anxiety that our pain masks the quesions. once pain or confusion is framed or articulated by a quesiton, it must be lived rather than answered. the first task is to touch your own struggles, doubts, insecurities....to affirm your life as a quest.
        - spiritual guidance calls for the creation of space in which the validity of the question does not depend on the availability of answers but on the questions capacity to open us to new perspectives and horizons. we must allow the daily experiences of life- joy, loneliness, fear, anxiety, insecurity, doubt, ignorance, need for affection- to be recognized as an essential part of the spiritual quest.
        - more often, as our questions and issues are tested and mature in solitude, the questions simply dissolve.** the greatest call of a spiritual director is to open the door to the opportunities for spiritual growth and sometimes to provide a glimpse of the great mysterious light behind the curtain of life and of the Lord who is the source of all knowing and the giver of life. to receive spiritual direction is to recognize that God does not solve our problems or answer all our questions, but leads us closer to the mystery of our existence where all questions cease.
# Chapter 2 (Where do I begin?)
- Questions for reflection:
    - How do I listen attentively to God? What am I hearing right now?
        - Take the step to begin wrestling with the things I know God wants me to change. I think about weed and porn. Really press in, and see what God can do. Ask him to really open my eyes to how this can be a positive thing, how I can be excited to experience him in my weakness, and to experience growth towards a better way of living, a healthier and more focused life with inner peace and connection of God. Get off the sideline and let God show me more of himself in these struggles.
        - to be willing to step out of my comfort zone. to test him a bit more. opening my life up to him to see what i should be growing and stretching with. i think i should be cutting back on weed. i dont feel like its inherantly bad, but i think im teetering on using it too much. i think being willing to try out a community, ive been dragging my feet.
    - If you imagine yourself as a beautiful but unformed block of marble, what would God need to chip away to reveal the lion inside you?
# Chapter 3 (who am i?)
- key quotes:
    - Dear friend, being the Beloved is the origin and the fulfillment of the life of the Spirit. I say this because, as soon as we catch a glimpse of this truth, we are put on a journey in search of the fullness of that truth and we will not rest until we can rest in that truth. From the moment we claim the truth of being the Beloved, we are faced with the call to become who we are. Becoming the Beloved is the great spiritual journey we have to make.
- Reflect and Journal
    - Write a two sentence answer to the question: Who am I? What does your answer reveal about what you value?
        - two core things:
            - acheivement, being successful and respected. being able to channel my abilities to accomplish big positive change. but as i get older, as ive gotten sidetracked by life changes, questioning a lot of things, uncertainty about where i am headed in life- there is is growing sense of maybe thats not in my future. maybe im just going to plateau at some eng managment position, maybe the right opportunity wont cross my path and im not going to have this success i dreamed of. and so this sense of dread of getting older of time slipping by, missing out on the passion and energy and drive of my youth, it all puts that to the test and im tempted to wonder if im going to be a dissapointment or if im going to live with a ton of regert.
            - being a person of faith, trying to follow God with the way I live my life. but a bunhc of my life feeling like a failure. feeling like i was dissapointing God. feeling like God's belovedness was contingent on my performing for him. struggling with the notion that im accepted by God (which i beleive to be true) and that part of following God is growth and change, chipping away at the marble stone to become our truest fullest self (which is also true), struggling to see how those to fit together. struggling to accept God's grace and love, when i fall short. and i think that dynamic was something that significantly stunted the way that i tried to realte to God before, it was a big reason why my faith collapsed. this exercise, these truths laid out here are really powerful for me. but even as i read them, its hard for me to truly beleive it, or to truly claim it as nouwen puts it.
        - I think that most honsetly, I've viewed myself as a failed christian living outside of where God wants me to be, in danger of falling complete away from him and out of his grace. So to summarize, perhaps I feel like fundamentally broken and like a dissapointment to God. The overwhelming emotion is of letting God down, and feeling shame and embarassment at the sense of "failure" in my spiritual journey so far. 
        - I have a really hard time with beleiving I'm beloved with no string attached. I intellectually understood this on a surface level, but I always struggled to reconcile this with the notion of salvation and hell. the notion that i am not fully eternally safe, and that my utlimate destination is determined by my action (or so I've been taught). So maybe God loves me deeply, but can I really feel safe in that belovedness, were I to know that God would turn his back on my for eternity if I don't do the right things. Its like the notion of marriage- what kind union is that if I go into it knowing its conditional based on how the other person performs. And marriage is supposed to be the analogy of of relatinoship with God, also the parallel of being a child of God. How do I reconcile the notion of eternal separation from God, contingent on my behavior, with the pararllels of marriage and of being a child of God. 
        - But what if the outcomes or the destination of the journey doesn't matter. What if true faith and relationship is just about claiming this truth of being beloved fully, and sincerely and earnestly. And that when it is grasped and when that connection to God is formed, the inevitable real journey towards growth begins. But what if there are not strings attached, what if its not about where the journey takes you, but rather about just being on the journey with God and learning to experience more of him. And maybe in this journey, a changed life can emerge free from legalism or self-dependency. But rather in the context of a deepening love for God, and a deepening sense of being Loved by God. What if the removal of sin is not the goal and should not be what we fixate on, but rather the goal or the vision should be to experience more of God.
    - In what areas of your life are you most prone to self-rejection?
        - i reject that I am fully loved and accepted by God. i reject that his feelings are not tied to my behavior or that they are contingent on my removing all the sin from my life.
- Personal thoughts:
    - Maybe this is heresy...but I imagine a paradigm where I am fully accepted and loved by God, and am fully his no matter what happens or how my life turns out. Nothing I can do will separate me from his love and his ultimate rescue of me into an eternity with him. And out of that dynamic, I can approach him to experience him and know him and be in relationship with him because that is the best place to be, that is the fullest life, that is the richest life. And out of that place of acceptance and love and safety, this is where I can embark on the journey of transformation. If this were to be true, it would radicallty shift the way that I think about sin and seek growth. It would take so much pressure off, and it would be driven by wanting to experience more of God, rather than needing to secure my spot in eternity. Maybe the core issue in the past is that I've misunderstood the foundation of change? Being fully accepted as I am. Period. And everything else just being part of the journey of experience the riches of knowing more of God, without having any necessary outcome or having to prove anything or earn anything, with no stakes about having to end up in a certain place, but fully trusting God? This would be marvelous, life givign news.
# Chapter 4 (where have i been and where am i going?)
- what moments in my life stand out as crucial in my spiritual journey?
    - growing up overseas- encounters with poverty, seeing and experiencing faith and God as something that really transcends culture, western society. seeing lives truly transformed by faith.
    - my brain tumor. forcing me to stare the hardest existential questions right int he eye, at a time when it was really easy to lose myself in what next, ambition, chasing dreams.
    - my divorce. shattering the boundaries and boxes i had had been puttering around in faithwise for the past decade. causing me to really ask the hard questions, to relook at my assumptions. to set it down, to see life without it, and then to come back and to begin to more authentically and sincerely engage with it from the ground level.
- when looking at the three major disciplines of the spiritual life, where do you see your greatest gift and my greatest need?
    - i think most naturally im more in touch with my heart, my feelings, my emotions and realting to God through those. relating to others through those emtoions. but my greatest weakness i think is also the community part. struggling with feeling safe to be myself, knowing that i can't go back to the last place, but also not knowing entirely what it should look like.
- what persons, books, movements, ideas, have played a significant role in my spiritual life?
    - parents
    - nouwen
    - the anglican practice
    - the trump era
    - the christian mystics and contemplative christianity
    - the bible project
    - wrestling with progressive christianity
    - the great divorce by lewis
    - dropping the need for certainty in theology, focusing rather on understanding and realting to God authentically.
    - discovering that some of the "greats" held much more mysterious views abouut the nature of God and faith and salvation than the very boxed in view I had been immersed in while in the reformed church.
    - 
# Chapter 5 (what is prayer)
- standouts:
    - prayers vs prayerfulness (under the prayer as conversations concept). having more stream of stream of conscious conversation. not having this sit down time where i just close my eyes (thats valuable of course) but also through the day, in the small moments, in the frustrations, in the good news.
    - crying out to God- this is probably the parrt that comes most naturally to me. i had been through some real upheaval where circumstances caused me to cry out. but the shift has been the spiritual censorship- and trying to bring more of my full self- my fears, my dissapointments with God, my resentment. 
        - telling him I am dissapointed with my faith, dissapointed with how much of a struggle my faith felt like, how i really hated the rules, how i didn't like the church
    - prayer as contemplation. a change for me. signing on, talking at God, and then signing off is how a lot of people, myself included primarily view prayer. but the being quiet and listening, in a posture of humility and embracing my smallness in front of the God of the universe. being quiet and listening and waiting. i think the key thing has been listening without an agenda....willing to hear wahtever God might say to me. maybe he will ask me to change something in my life. maybe something he says will require actions, or i sense some sort of conviction rise up in me. but if im truly willing to hear him and respond to him...i think he almost always answers, maybe not right away but at some point he will.
        - the community and job part with renji.
        - the ongoing attempt to find community now. maybe the right community is one that will feel a little uncomfortable at first, maybe it won't look exactly how i want it to look.
        - trying to learn a better way of spiritual formation. this process of growing a real more authentic faith. asking God to show me how, but then i need to be open to what he has to say to me or what he might ask me to change. thats the scary part, because its letting go of control. 
    - special place, special time: still working on this part. mornings are nice because i have full control over it and i sets my compass for the day. but i tend to feel rushed, i feel this need to check the clock and to set a timer. sometimes after work is nice, dimming the lights, putting on some natures ounds, lighting a candle and just resting with no sense that i need to rush or finish at a cetaint time. still not super long but its a different headspace.
# Chapter 6 (who is god for me)
- "The Knowledge of God is a subject that one can never fully master" and the paradox of God being both unknowable but also knowable
    - i think i have been growing more and more to accept this core truth. being ok with the fac that i am on this journey that is always going to contian a lot of things i don't know or don't understand. adopting this posture of humility about all things relating to God. 
    - i do beleive that we can learn and grow in knowing more, understanding more. 
    - but i also think that faith is probably a lot like the bell curve of learning- people at the beginning of a subject think they are the experts. part of actually learning more is realizing how little you know.
- Faith is about learning to live with the paradoxes
    - "Why is the God of justice also the Lord of love? The God of fear also the God of gentle compassion". Relfecting on this notion, that faith and spiritual growth is coming to terms with paradoxes. I think that a lot of us have this tendency to want to resolve these paradoxes, or want to have these neat boxes. 
    - But I think there can be a beauty in the paradoxes. To me the paradoxes are worth pressing into. I think there is something about the paradoxes that is a sign that there is a depth, there is a vastness, a multi-dementionality that I find odly comforting. I'm more comfortable with acknowledging how small I am, how limited my view is, how mysterious all of this is. I become more comfortable moving forward with the truths that I have experienced and I do feel assured of. And it adds a depth to these truths- the fact that this vast incredible God also is with me, realates to me, I beleive has a plan for my existence and some small roll for me to play in the universe. And on a broader scale, I beleive an existence past this life- its something wonderful to marvel at. The questions and paradoxes ebb and flow, and normally remain, but I find myself drawing nearer to God and growing regardless.
- the concept of "God is with us"
    - "we will never really know God as a compassionate God if we do not understand with our hearts and mind that God came and lived amoung us and with us".
    - I this represents something that has shifted for me over the last year even. Somethign that especially stood out to me in just reflecting on what Easter means to me. I thinking about who God is, how we relate to God, the role of part that Jesus plays in it. Without Jesus, to me God does become a lot less personal and a lot more distant. 
    - For me...when I was coming back to this. As a starting point, without even evaluating whether its true or not, but just considering it at face value and what it would mean for me if it was true. 
    - There is this incredible beauty in the fact God would inhabit this limited body, experience the dynamics of growing up, feeling like his parents were overbearing, getting the flu, learning carpentry, enjoying good food and drink, feeling the dissapointment of being let down by friends. All the mundate things that make up our experience and mark our day by day. How beautiful is it if I relate to God on this level, if I know that I have Jesus as my advocate and my shepheard. If God is both infinite, both on the cosmic sense being over the entirety of the universe- the trillions and trillions of planets, and both shapping this incredible detail and beauty at these crazy pigments on the octpus and embedding this curiosity and playfulness in this tiny creature. And then also inhabited a frail human body, lived within its limits, and actually choose a terrible death on behalf of humanity. Its a beautiful story, its a grand narrative, its deeply meaningful in the way i relate to God if its true.
    - Without Jesus, God is really not with us in the same sense. There is much less about God we can grasp onto. There is much less that he has said to us. 
    - Can I prove Jesus' divinity or that he was raised from the dead? Nobody can. It is faith. It shouldn't be a blind faith. As with all these things, its partly about acknowledging that any position when it comes to ultimate reality, existential questions, requires a leap of faith. So my approach is multi-faceted:
        - I do like to compare the different realtiy or approaches, and to line them up next to eeach other to objectively consider the claims and the implications. To be honest about them, and what the implications would be if it any of them turn out to be true or not true.
        - I think its valuable to step into a worldview and to try it on, to live withint in, to see how it feels and tastes and smells- the experiental nature of faith and spritiuality trumps the cognitive.
        - To continue to asking questions, and remianing intellectually honest. I want to increase my convictions if they are true, but I want a sense of humility about everything.
        - Evaluating what he taught. And putting it to the test. Finding people who are truly living according to his teachings looking at their lives. Looking at the lives of others who subscribe to other beleifs. 
- Pausing to ask myself why I feel that God is both unknowable and beyond our comprehension, but that we can also feel confident about our ability to know and be known by God.
    - Although I become more comfortable with mystery, with not having the answer to so many hard questions about life or about God, those things don't threaten or errode my core convictions or beleif that I can have a relationship, that God has a purpose for me, and that my aim in life is to discover that and live in that plan. And I think that the most important things in life is to be on that journey, because I think there are implications for the life after death. And when I think about why I can feel confident, I think there are a couple main reasons:
        - Looking at the lives of people that I feel most confident actually know God and are commited to discovering that and living it out. Looking at what that produces. I want to go to the tree that produces the best fruit.
        - A inuitive sense of what is good, what is divine DESPITE it not being what I would want or what I would create for myself. In moments where I've felt really stronly that I am sensing God or seeing God in something, but it also is something I really don't want....this is one of the more compelling reasons I beleive its true. And i think we all have this voice, this ability to discen if we are truly seeking it. I beleive this completey. "Ask and it will be gtiven to you, knock and the door will be opened". I think we are really good at just seeing what we want to see. I'm always in danger of doing that. Of picking and chosing the parts I like and leaving the rest behind. Of engaging with God just on my own terms. When my conviction doesn't line up with what I would choose- that is something to really pay attention to there.
        - My own experiences of feeling extremely confident I've encountered and experienced God. Just like is emphasized in Nouwens chapter, those moments can be spread out. But when it happens its hard for me to deny that I'm experiencing the divine and that it matches up with what I learn, what I see in the Bible, what I've heard from others in this faith journey. There is a synergy that builds.
        - I embrace the doubt as normal. I embrace the tension as normal. I don't run away from it, I don't view it as threatning or something to squash. I accept it fully as part of our experience on this journey.
- One of nouwens most well known books is entirely about his reflections and relating to the Rembrant painting.
    - Some of these aspects about the heart of our relationship to God, God as this Abba figure, was something that was really missing from my earlier faith. God as both a father and mother. It is a book that I've had in my backlog
- The hiddenness of God
    - "Ultimately we discover that God cannot be understood, or grasped by the human mind. THe full truth of God escapes our human capacities. The only way to come close to it is by a constant emphasis on human limits to "have" or "hold" the whole truth. We cannot explain God or God's presence is history. As soon as we identify God with any specific event or situation, we play God and distort the truth. We can be faithful only in our affirmation that God has not deserted us but calls us in the middle of all the unexplainable absurdities of life."
    - it seems like one of the biggest traps to fall into in the spiritual journey is to put ourselves in the place of judging God (which we are all tempted to do) or to try to fit God into the box that we want him to be (or to fit our own personal agenda)
    - thinking about zacks comment on religion- picking and choosing what he likes from different religions. i do think this is a really common approach or view. it kinda like a consumer approach to faith. like faith is this buffet. i can pick and choose and create this version that has only the things i like and nothing that i don't like. with all these things there is a balance- its not that we just blindly accept everything. its not that we don't wrestle with the hard things. but if God is real, he is who he is is. And i think its risky to say I'm just going to engage with God as this buffet line.
- God is looking for us
    - God wants to find us as much, if not more than we want to find God.
    - The question is not "How am I to find God?", but "How am I to let myself be found by God?". The question is not "How am I to know God", but "How am I to let myself be known by God". The question is noit "How am I to love God", but "How am I to let myself by loved by God".
        - I think this distinction is an really important change in approach for me. The first part of my spiritual journey was very much the first posture, trying to work myself to God or trying to prove myself to God through religious practice. I think I realized I can't do it. And its utlimately rooted in this inflated view of my own ability or what I have to offer to God. But rather changing that, acknowledging my smallness and frankly this sense that I really do need God in my life. And focusing on opening myself up to God, rather than trying to work my way to God. That takes the pressure off ourselves. 
# Chapter 7 (how do I hear the word?)
- Listening to the living word of God
    - this touches on some of the change for me, an evolving way I realte to Jesus. Jesus as the "living word", this tangible, relatable loving act of God taking on humnan form and our finite nature as a way to build this bridge to humanity. Without Jesus there is this enormous gap. God does remain this much more distant nature. 
        - There are these few insances where God spoke clear and profoundly. In the OT moses went up to the mountain top to talk to God. it talk about how he hid his face, he was so filled with fear and awe. this is where he came back with the 10 commandments. his face was lit up, he didn't even realize this, but it was so bright he had to cover his face with a veil. (setting the asside how wild this is). Then God dwelling in this tabernacle. All the ritual. Only a select few could enter. All this getting at the notion that this God in his full essence so much power, so expansive, we can't handle it. It would kill us. And here we have Jesus, God inhabiting human form as a bridge to humanity.
        - To me this adds so much depth and meaningful context to the significance of Jesus that I think is really missed through the paltitudes and shallow sayings like "Beleive in Jesus and go to heaven". Jesus is still so important to me, but there is so much more than that.
    - Jesus becomes this act of God speaking to us, through his teachings, through his example, a statement of love to humanity. This to me is notion of "Living Word", its God's word put into human form, manifested in human form.
- Reading the Word
    - This is still an area I am really working to grow in. Its hard. I think some parts of the Bible are quite accessible, some are harder. Some things speak to me, and its things I don't want to hear. Its challenging. Its incredibly encouraging and uplifting. if it is indeed the word of God, its a gift to hold onto when everything around me is going to shit. this is probably the piece i struggle with the most and am trying to grow in the most.
    - a paradigm shift for me, has been focusing less on taking this and trying to do the work with it myself. and rather trying to adopt a position of submission and openness. opening myself to what God is doing in my life and around me. avoiding the tempatation to think i know whats best. 
    - The posture of listening from a place of obedience rather than "let me see what you reveal to me and then i'll decide what i want to do with it".
    - "instead of wondering if we agree or disagree with what we have read, we should wonder which words are spoken directly to us and connect directly with our most personal story". I think this is so important for me. there are some challenging verses in the bible- there was even the example of what we saw at Vox a couple weeks ago- she just kind skimmed past that part that talked about us calling God a liar if we reject Jesus. I think there are two extremes- on one end i treat all of scripture as this flawless, perfectly transcribed, literal word of God. on the other extreme- its purely just a collection of ancient writings. most of it doesn't apply today. ill kinda skim through it and pick and choose what i like. the buffet style spirituality.
        - i think the truth probably lies in the middle- there is mystery, there is undeniablly cultural context, there is undenyably people writing about God through their personal lesnes and experiences, Jesus's own claims about scripture, as well as the authority of those who knew Jesus personally who wrote most fo the Gospels, there is this unifying narrative arc. 
        - there is this lived experience with the bible, trying to live it, ingesting it, meditating on, praying through it. putting on the hat of faith and seeing what happens with it. and it build on this foundation of faith incrementallly. it is this framework that has this incredible sticking power and I've gotten so much out of it over the years.
        - with all of this, i do beleive its really risky to dismiss it or to think that we can just toss it out. yet there is a mystery with the bible, there is stuff i really don't like or I struggle to make sense of. and i think the best posture that i want to adapt is this sense of not reading to determine what i agree with, but reading with an openness to see what words God might be trying to speak to me where I, tim chew, are today. letting it penetrate my heart. But not every verse has to speak to me. Some stuff im like "well thats a little weird, and I don't really think thats what God is drwaing my attention to right now", so I'll just move on. There is a nuance, a fine line between buffet style and a true openness to God to speak to me through this, recognizing that at times it might be challenging or God might be asking my to change.
- Speaking the Word out of Silence
    - this touches on the community aspect that we are missing. i think there have been a couple times i have felt compelled to share a verse with you that was a comfort to me...are you comfortable with this? 
    - isaiah 40:28.
    - Proverbs 3:5-6. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths.
    - Phillipians 4:6-7: Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
- Meditations on Proverbs 3:5 - 8.
    - "Trust in the Lord with all your heart"
    - "In all your ways acknowledge him"
    - "Be wise not in your own eyes, fear the Lord"
    - "Turn away from evil, it will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones"
- Love Letter to God:
    - Father, thank you for the amazing gift of Jesus, for making a brige for us to a life back with you. Thank you for your incredible patience, mercy and love towards me that I do not deserve. Thank you for meeting me as I am, with all my flaws, my stubbornness, my sinfullness, and my own resistance to you. Thank you that you are unchanging, that I can stand firm on your word and on your character. Thank you for entering into this journey with me. Continue your work in me, even as I  wrestle with my continued fears, apathy, and doubts.
- Share with LL
    - On the topic of hearing from God, what it looks like to have that two way interaction. For me most often its a collection of different pathways that come together, rather than just a single one. I think these different avenues of "the Word" speak to my experience. There are times when I have felt live Ive heard from God or he has really clearly shown me something during prayer. But often its a combination of these different ways, that are a reponse to "living the question". 
        - It can be an insight throughout the course of my day, sometimes I feel like God will bring something to mind, or will give me this strong conviction about something that wasnt there before.  
        - Or it can be this quiet whisper that comes to mind. Or this conviction that grows in me that was not there before. 
        - it can be a conversation with someone else. 
        - It can be through something I read.
        - Its a talk or podcast I listen to. Its watching a documentary. Its listening to music. 
        - Its this sense of calm, of peace, a weight liften after praying about someting.
        - And then it can begin with "taking hold of a promise of God", or responding to that conviction or that small voice- acting in faith and seeing God respond.
        - I think that learning to hear God, learning to discern his voice is also something that really happens over time. Its facilitated and honed like any discpline.
        - quite often the ways i feel God move or answer prayers, or speak to me, objectively- from the outside almost anything could be dismissed as coincidence, as good fortune, as a self-fulfilling practice. rationally the spritual experience can never be quantified and measured. but from "inside the place of faith", there is a meaning and a personal, profound impact of some of these experiences- that can't be validated and provedn, but are these glimpses into this reality that is truly profound and are these hints at something much bigger, much more important, something worth taking risks for. and these things build on each other, and they give me a confidence to keep living in that space of faith, until at a certain point it no longer feels like such a leap- i have this collection of deeply personal experiences- of inquiring about the Word, about God, about Jesus and finding this growing mound of experiential confidence. It can't be quantified, it can't be proven, but over time it builds this body of experiential, personal assurance that becomes something I'm willing to fully embrace and something im willing to take risks for because its worth it.
        - i really wish God would just speak louder i really do. but for whatever reason, that doesn't seem to be how he operates. although almost all of us would say thats what we want, maybe we actually couldn't handle God speaking to us in that way. maybe there is grace in God speaking to us more softly. maybe it would make us more accountable and put more of us in the position of outright disobedience after hearing him like that?
        - i think that god does really want us to seek him and to want to find him. i beleive he could move very overtly, but somehow, for some reason i think he wants faith. and faith is what he asks of us. somehow in this mystery and unknowing, faith seems to be one of the main things God wants to grow in us. 
    - On the topic of faith as this incremental small steps of opening yourself up to God and waiting on God to confirm and reveal himself:
        - i think the common way this is said in christian circles, and frankyl it makes me cringe now- is this notion of "put your faith in jesus". this single transaction. this binary state- you are in, you are out. i see it so much more as this incremental journey that is rooted on an openess to God, and this sincere desire to know God and to respond to him.. And I really beleive that God is gracious to meet us where we are. 
        - I don't think we can manifest faith. I have been thinking more and more about my journey. I think it can best be described as me acknowledging my doubts, acknowledging things i don't like, but being compelled by something here. And then choosing to step into the place of faith- of asking "what if I start from a place of accepting this as true, opening myself to God in this reality, and seeing what it is like, giving God the chance to give me the personal assurance that this is real and living, that this is inficat this glimpse into a much larger spiritual realtiy." It really can't be truly evaluated from the outside.  I don't think that confidence can come from logical, quantifiable arguments- I do think there is a really strong logical argument for the existance of God. But when it comes to the more granular parts of faith not so much. This is where i think its a process of small steps that begin with faith, of saying im going to accept and inhabit this space, and i'm going to open myself up to God (in "good faith" rather than a manipulative, "prove it to me" attitude) to give me that reassurance. And I've found that in these steps, I see that there is a depth, a meaning, a significance to this way of living that goes far beyind my life without God. And its not to say life without God can't be great. But there is another layer ontop that opens up new meaning.
        - And there is also the piece of what happens next. I think again- its cingrey the ways that Christians talk about the afterlife. And I really do beleive that faith is about both the here and now and what comes after. But I also do truly beleive that there is this piece- the Bible is really clear that the way we live our lives here has a bearing on what happens after. I don't know what that is. I'm not in the business (nor should anybody be) in the business of saying who is in and who is out. I find myself much less convinced of the characiture of hell- the Dante's inferno version (and it wasn't really until Dante that many Christians started adapting this iddea of this pit of fire and sulfure with demons and pitchforks). But its pretty indisputable that the Bible paints that this life is this investment in what happens next. And that the stakes are high- and the reward is truly priceless and beyond our imagination. And I find that incredibly exciting- and it adds a backdrop to all of the pain, suffering, questions, where I feel comfortable saying I don't know why these things happen. I don't know what God's purpose is, but there is more to this story than I can see. That the suffering, the pain will be made right. There will be no more tears. That there is this greater reality that will make all this life seem like this small blip. I cringe when people focus on this, or dange this as the reason to beleive. But this is undeniably part of the picture for me. This is another palce where I think its worth asking "What if its true. Stepping into the realtiy. What if this is what happens? How would this change my life. And also appreciating the wonder and beauty of it. And conversly- what if this were real and I were to risk missing out on this?". 
            - Pascal argues that a rational person should live as though (the Christian) God exists and seek to believe in God. If God does not actually exist, such a person will have only a finite loss (some pleasures, luxury, etc.), whereas if God does exist, he stands to receive infinite gains (as represented by eternity in Heaven) and avoid infinite losses (eternity in Hell)
# Chap 8 (Where do I belong?)
- My reflections:
    - on being rooted in solitude as the starting place for engaging in community.
        - this was something looking back that i was really missing in some ways. i was so very caught up in being accepted and relying on the approval of those in the context of community, that i was scared to bare my sould and reveal my weaknesses, my doubts, my struggles. i wanted to maintain the external image because i was not comfortable or secure enough in who i really was.
    - "night, morning, and afternoon are symbols for the movement from solitude to community to ministry that jesus lived out". 
        - i feel as though this past stretch of much more isolation and being removed, has in some sense been a really good moment of solitutde, to wrestle out who i am with God, and to experience some of the healing around this pain within the solitutde- where it is just me and god. and this has been important, i think even a year ago i really wasn't ready to engage with community. i still needed more work in the solitutde.
    - "if we take the time to be stil, we will be led to an inner place, a place within us where God has chosen to dwell, a place whre we are hel;d safe in the embrace of the all loving One who calls us by name"....."intimate communinion with God is not an easy discpline. Remember, Jesus spent the night in prayer. Night is a time of mystery, darkness, solitutde, and sometimes loneliness. Nigh is a symbol of the fact that prayer is not something you always can feel."
        - this has become more true for me over the last year- the positive effect of the solitude has been more time and space to foster this. the real battle moving forward is going to be to preserve this space- it will become harder and harder.
    - On the centrality of forgivenss and grace in the context of community. "Forgiveness says 'I know you love me, but you don't have to love me unconditionally because only God can do that.' I too must ask for forgiveness for not being able to fullfill other people's total needs, for no human being can do that".
    - "Sometimes you feel close, and thats wonderful. Sometimes you don't feel much love, and thats hard. But we can be faithful to one another in community. We can build a home together and create space for God and for others in the household of God."
        - recognizing that true community is hard. that there will be people that i don't like, or wouldn't normally choose to be around. being ok with that, recognizing that it is a chance for me to practice being more gracious, loving, more kind when its not easy. everyone is loving to people they like. the real test of how loving and gracious you are is to those who you don't natrually like.
        - what is her sense of forgiveness? i remember her bringing up a question about forgiveness very early on in our discussions about faith?
    - on God as the supplier of our deeper needs and security- thus releiving us from needing to meet this in another human being. on how this relates to a marriage relatioship where you are bound to be dissapointed and letdown by the other person. and where forgiveness is key.
    - On recognizing my own woundedness, fears, insecurities in community and the baggage i have from the past. Dealing with the experience with Christian via EMDR this week. Its really hard, but I do really feel like I'm trusting God here to lead us to the right place. But also really trying to be open to however it might take shape. I think you've done a really good job of reminding me that it could take time, it might not be the first place we try. Just with all of this- I'm trying to being open to God here, trying to open to how he might stretch me or get me uncomfortable this area- and that being stretched and uncomfortable in here is probably a really good thing for me. Recognizing that there can something taht is not a good fit, there could be something that maybe very easy but is kinda shallow and not a good fit, and there can be something that feels uncomfortable but is actually a great fit. And really being open to God and looking for God to make that clear, asking him to make that clear to both of us.
# Chapter 9 (how can i be of service?)

- "we are called to be wounded healers who look after our own wounds and at the same time prepare to heal the wounds of others"
- "ministry is when two people toast their glasses of wine and womething splashes over. ministry is the extra"
- "mutuality in ministry can be characterized by two words: gratitude and compassion...if you are looking for a community to belong to, look for these characteristics."
- "the way of jesus is radically different tha the spirit of the world...it is going to the end of the line, staying behind the sets, and choosing the last place. why is the way of jesus worth choosing? because it is the way to the kingdom and the way that brings life everlasting."
- "the great mystery of the incarnation is how God descended to humanity and became one of us and, once amoung us, descended to the total dereliction of one condemned to death"
- "voluntary displacement unmasks the illusion that we have to 'make it to the top' and offers us a glimpse of a deeper spiritual reality."
- "when displacement brings us in touch with our own wounded condition and allows us to become present to the suffering other, then community becomes the first place where the fruits of compassion are made visible. when i stand in the presence of the lord with empty hands, as a useless servant, i become aware of my basic dependence and my deep need for grace. prayer helps me break down my pretense of wholeness and 'self-fullfillment'".
- "go to the place where people are in pain, but don't go alone. go with others who have learned how to be grateful for the good and the bad in life. go with those who can sit with others in need, even if problems and pain persist. let your heart be broken, and rely on jesus example of self-emptying so that you can be filled by god's strength. then you will find the messiah in your midst."


- top highlights:
	- "im here to say this is who i am, and this is who God is for me, and to be there for others"
	- "ministry is not something we have to offer to another in need, but something offered and received in mutual vulnerability and benefit. ministry is a communal and mutual experience."
	- "ministry takes courage to be with the sick, the dying, the poor in their weakness and in our powerlessness. we can't fix their problems or even answer their questions. we dare to be with others in mutual vulnerability and ministry precisely because God is a God who suffers with us and calls us to gratitude and compassion in the midst of pain. you cannot solve the worlds problems but you can be with people in their problems and questions with your simple presence, trusting that joy also will be found there."
		- this makes me think about alan from mobile loaves and fishes. leaving high powered corperate world to do this.
	- "for many people, discplacement means persevering faithfully in their unspectacular daily life, leaving grand fantasies aside to be faithful to their ministry in the marketplace. for others, it means leaving their jobs and security in a voluntary act of downward mobility in order to be free for ministry."

- discussion questions:
	- ive sensed her recoil against the notion of being a 'servant'. is that true? talk more about what that means to me, what that means to me in the context of faith and god. 