First I can't relate the fear of sexual abuse of your child. And clearly its something that people are more cognizant about now a days and taking more precautions nowadays. And so you guys should make the decisions you feel are right. 

I think I just want to better understand where its coming from, and how it will protect Zeke.

From my perspective, it really kinda crushes me when I think about how this makes dad feel. These moments of time we have together are so precious and so rare. They are not regular times and so I just really value them and want us all to be able to soak up the time. For me its really hard to see how this does anything tangible to protect Zeke, but it does come with significant relational impact for dad. 

As a general principle it makes total sense, but to apply it to even grandparents feels really harsh and like its punishing dad for being a male. Or promoting this idea that all men are dangerous and all women are safe. 

I'm really trying to understand why it would need to be so extreme. And I will admit, I went online and was reading to try to find people saying yes this is what you need to do. This is the new best practice with kids. And I could find anything. I found one article where the author was writing about how they have this hard and fast rule- that she won't apoligize for it. That the safety of her kids comes first and she doesn't care if it hurts peoples feelings. But then she said she makes an exception for the grandparents. 

The other angle is my personal experience. I don't think I've ever shared this with you, but I had an instance when I was about 5-6 in Spokane where I was touched by an older girl in the closet inside our room in Spokane. She was not much older, probably 2-3 years and they were family friends. I'll be honest, I had almost completely forgotten about this instance and then it did come up in my therapy. I don't feel like its been a really traumiatic thigns for me, but in hindsight I'm damn she was kinda like a predator. And I just think a rule like this, Zeke can't be alone with his grandfather is so extreme when there is a real risk from either gender. yes its higher risk of men. I looked at the CPS numbers and 88 percent are men. But that is still 12 percent woemn. And you guys obviously have no issue with leaving him with women that are functionally strangers. 

So it was not about somehow empowering Zeke to protect himself by teaching him no men ever, but it was about them enforcing the boundaries for the kids at that age because kids can't be expected to navigate the complexities of relationships. And that part makes sense. But it doesn't make sense to me why never letting dad spend any alone time with Zeke is going to teach Zeke to be safer. And if there was any benefit, it seems so abstract- while having signifcant impact on Zekes quality time and bonding with his grandfather. Its this limited window of time. And this time passes, and we don't know how much time there is, not to mention just the logistics making of us getting together that are so hard. And so that makes it hurt even more when during this limited window of time, to say dad can't do that.

And I know I'm still learning to relate to Zeke and I can be awkward. But I did definitely hope or want to have him comfortable enough that I could take him to get ice cream or something like that. So I was sad taht would be off the table, but I'm ok. But I really hurt for dad, I know how much he loves taking Zeke places. He's done with him since he was a baby. And there is this little window of time and it feels cruel and unecessary to do this, when I get saying that you guys will be strict about what situations he can be in. But to say he can't even be alone with his grandfather is a really big cost to dad. 

88% percent of sexual of minors is from men. Still 12 percent is from women. 
