It's crazy how quick we are to forget, to question our own experiences or own understandings. 

On Friday I had one of the most profound spiritual experiences of my life. I wrapped up almost 3 years of focused counseling, hours and hours of working and exploring and understanding my past, my mistakes, wrestling with God over the most painful experiences of my life, crying so many tears. And I approached the end months of focused prayer, so many talk, reading, begging God for wisdom and guidance, through the agonizingly difficuly and scary process of trying to figure out the right path forward for Lara and I at this crossroads. So much confusion over how in the world I hear from God, why does He not speak more clearly. Frustration around feeling at the crossroads of an impossible decision where I just cannot possibly have all the information to make a decision either way without having taking a large leep of faith- walking away from something so promising with so many possitive signs...and never for the rest of my life being able to shake the fact that she felt like my soulmate, or stepping forward without enough information to be fairly assured about where her spiritual trajectory is headed. So much hope and potential, but such risk. And so much fear of what could go wrong. Am I just hearing what I want to hear? Am I just feining a process so that I can say I did my due dilligence while really already having the outcome settled.

And yet.....Standing before God I know I stand fully open to him, fully willing to do what he ask of me at this juncture. Earnestly seeking to follow him in this, just wanting to hear enough. I know my intentions are never fully pure, and that I have so many mixed emotions and I am so fickle. And over so much of the past years having been interacting with God on my own terms. Unwilling to put it all on the table, too scared to look at the hard things like porn and weed and sex. Just wanted a God that I could control and that I could meet on my terms. Yet thanks be to God, even this began to shift over the past month- starting with  Mom's challenge to fully submit to God in the big and small, holding nothing back, standing before Him with a clean conscience asking what to do next. And having begun to experience newness and openess revisiting even things as hard and scary and baggage-ridden as porn in my life. 

I stood at this crossroads- with so many wounds, battle scars, baggage, fears, uncertainties, mixed motives.....yet also with a kind of innocence and surrender and purity of intention that I am coming to God out of my poverty, wanting earnest to hear from him and to follow him the rest of my days. And just feeling kinda stuck in this whirlpool of fears and uncertainties surrounding this impossible decision.

And it was at this incredible crossroads that one of the more profound spiritual experiences took place in my life that I wrote about in my last journal entry. As I look back at what I wrote down- it strikes me as such simple statements. And I'm a little bit sad because the words don't capture the magnitude of what it meant to me in the moment. The words are all things I would have known intellectually about God. And even now, I'm already finding myself doubting my own recollections or the significance of this? Am I making it bigger than it really was? Is there any chance I'm deceiving myself about what I experienced?

I understand how the Israelits could have experienced such profound miracles, and seen God's hand so clearly, yet so quickly forgetting it and going astray. I am also reminded about the many times I wonder, why doesnt' God speak more clearly? Why aren't there more miracles? Perhaps that wouldn't make as much as a difference as i think- for even I am so quick to question it just days removed from such a profound experience. Why these doubts? Or could this be work of the adversary to try to make me question what happened?

But I know that I am not deceived...and if I can not be certain of that, I question my ability to be certain about almost anything spiritual.

A couple days removed from Friday, here is what stands out to me about the experience:
- The statements where simple. But it was so profound because they were spoken TO ME. The God of the universe, eternal, over everything, knowing every secret, knowing everything to come, stooped down and spoke these simple but direct words into my soul in my time of need. He entered into entering into my moment, adressing my deepest fears, my indecision, and my desires to reconcile this impossible situation with my earnest desire to follow him and to not make a decision that would prevent me from following him fully in the future He affirmed me, his love for me, his plans for me. And he told me to not be afriad, to make a decision, and to follow him. its one thing to read it in the bible, but its another thing to have God speak them directly to me.
- They were sufficient to speak to my greatest question, no more. Especially now, I wish I could have had more words. More spoken to me. But at its core, my deepest fear at this junture has been that making the wrong decision (or moving forward with Lara) would foolish, dissobedient, or choosing path that inevitably will end in destruction, pain, and suffering. My specific prayer has been that God would show me, or speak up and tell me if moving forward would jepeordize my ability to follow him in the future. And as much as I would have liked to hear more, God spoke directly to those things:
	- He didn't make any promises to me. He didn't tell me what will happened in the future. But he told me that its not about this single decision, but its about a lifetime of choices. And he told me that there is a path towards flourishing with Lara, even as there will also be some hard challenges. Where I was scared that I could make a wrong, or disobedient decision, what I heard was "no". And where I was scared taht I am just doomed to repeat my past mistakes in marriage, he told me that he can use this marriage for good in my life, and that he can redeem all things. And finally, he told me "don't be scared, make a decision, and follow me". He told me EVERYTHING I needed, and spoke directly to my specific fears so clearly. it was nothing more than that, but that was everything I needed at this crossroads. 
- At no point in the moment did I every question the reality of the fact that I had a profound encounter with God. Time just kinda faded away and I had tears streaming down my face in the middle of the park. I was just in shock and awe over the experience.
- I was deeply moved emotionally. I just wanted to sit there, to bask in God's presence. it led me to worhip, praise, thanks, gratefullness. it brought about peace and it lifted the weight from my shoulders. God felt so near. I felt God's affection and his warmth and his love in such a deep way. The results of this encounter was all the fruits of the spirit- I've had this afterglow for days now.
- I felt incredibly compelled to share this experience with others, in ways that I don't I ever have in the past. I told mom and dad next morning, through tears, what had happened. I told Lara Saturday afternoon and it sparked meaningful conversation. I told Bekah and Andrew at our brunch Sunday. I meet Dustin tomorrow for beers and I know I want to tell him as well. It is almost as though the evangelistic instinct has been born when it comes to this experience.
- There is no other true parallel to this experience in my life. I've felt God be very close at some very hard or crucial times in my life in the past. But the way that God met me and spoke to me at a crossroads, directly as I had been asking him does not compare to anything else for me.
- It wasn't on my schedule- and this was after months and months of prayer. And specifically after a very intense two months of focused journaling, prayer, beggin God for insights, many converations with family. It was clearly not something I could control or manifest.
- I am left longing for more of God, wanting to spend more time with him, wanting to feel that closeness. Sad about drifitng further away from this experience. Sad about the idea of more doubt creeping in as more time passes and it becomes more feint of a memory. May these writings help preserve the beauty and real-ness of this experience.


--

And so here I am. Today is the last day of January. Today is the day I said I would make a decision. The God of the universe told me to not be afraid, to make a decision, and to come follow him. What else can I ask for than that? Who am I to still waver after hearing this from God?


Even as I acknowledge my fear and doubts, I am ready Lord.

--

Father, you are so gracious. What have I done to deserve such a gift from you. I can truly you are my greatest desire, I long for more of you.

I am trusting the words that you spoke to me. I am ready to move forward with you in this relationship with Lara. Father- I commit my full life, everything I have, and Lara and I's future together to you. I ask for your grace and your blessing and your continued guidance for both of us. Work in our lives, transform both of us further into your image each day. I need you daily. You are good, thank you for your faithfullnes in my life.