I need to do a serious work re-orientation with God. I've let myself fall into a compulsive cycle of chasing the feeling of being successful and valued at work. I've let this take over my days, and I've let this become my master. And the irony is that my performance has suffered, my relationships have suffered, and I'm incredibly more stressed and anxious through the days, and even my days off. 

Things I need to do moving forward:

- Clarify what my true goals and values are, and then make choices that align with these. My goals and values could be (and likely will be) very different than those of someone else (namely Koty). I think that a major cause of unhappiness is when I live with the tension of conflicting goals (or my lived choices point towards goals that are different than my true goals, leading me to be lead away from what I truly want causing me to feel a constant sense of failure). *I need a constant daily reminder of this. I need to take a moment at the beginning of the day, even just 5 minutes to stop and meditate and ask for Gods help with this.*
	- write down my explicit goals for the next 3 months of work. write down what i am not trying to do. i want to grow spiritually, i want to become a better man for lara, and i also want to seek excellence in my work. what is the intersection between these three that provides room for all? the ideal path for me will look much different than Koty, so stop comparing, and remember success and acheivement for me will look very different.
	- make a list of affirmation statements that i work through [[Daily Work Reflection]].
	- refine my prayer list, and begin praying more seriously and more continually for God's help in these areas. I have deep need here, so press into God's help and seek
	- establish boundaries and stick to them. even when every part of me is dying to keep grinding in order to try to solve something, make the choice itself an act of offering to God. 
	- *review my goals and my affirmations daily*. My entire life system falls apart if I do not set these goals / habits, and do not actually follow through on them. When I get sucked into negative compulsive behaviors, this goes out the window and I spiral into worse cycles. *this is my first battleground*. Anticipate that my boundaries and my intentions will be challenged the moment the week starts. Prepare for it, expect to fall short at times, but make success about getting back up after the failure.
	- acknowledge that i do want excellence in my craft. i do want to put effort into growing. but i need to recognize that near sighted grinding or working overtime to hit a project deadline !== maximized growth. it will take discipline and saying no to some immediate pressing instincts, to continue to maximize my growth. make it a regular pattern to set up the goals daily. Don't let the daily urgency knock out my strategic goals. Be a leader to myself. Don't be led by the urgent. 
		- as i approach my path for growth. AGAIN- realize that it can and will look very different from those around me. don't make it my goal to model koty or to try to compete with his level of contribution. my best path will absolutely look different than his, and i will be sacrificing my chance for best growth if i fall into comparing or trying to mimick his style or the way he works. 
	- have a bigger plan that is decoupled from things i can't control at this job. don't put all my eggs in the bakset of what i can control, focus on what i can. focus on finding my larger vision. then go after that plan seriously. 
		- ie a lot of my thrashing is around insecurities from being de-leveled from senior. or comparing myself to doms level. decide what i can do and let go of what i can't control. 
		- remember that if i don't get the promotion or it looks unlikely, that i can start looking for the next jump. if i can't build connections or full time remote is not best for me, start looking for the next jump. this is the one career where i have a ton of choices
	- prioritize working towards my next interview cycle. get serious about starting to prep now for a FAANG cycle. do my leetcode and my systems design learning at a sustainable pace now. so much stress will be removed by keeping those skills sharper and leveling up so that i could be ready to go right into an interview cycle. think about making a run at the FAANG cycle this summer and plot out a plan.
	- develop a healthier growth mindset. i hit a similiar plateau in film. how do i avoid the similiar dynamics as i approach the same stage in code where i began to peter out in film. i have good natural, instinctual approach that help me early on. but to keep growing, i need to slow down, i need to dig deeper. i need to study proactively. i need to develop a higher level of curiosity- why are things this way. i need to question more assumptions, about our business, about our industry, about our team practices. have a clear list of things i want to grow in and things i want to get better at. identify things i can do to get better
		- prioritize building relationships, letting my guard down. joking around. building relational equity.
		- don't wallow or dwell on mistakes. focus on learning from the things i mess up. learning is often maximized through failure and through mistakes. change my mentality here. 
	- understand my strenghts, my unique perspective and offering in this field. i am not goig to get ahead on being super smart or a brilliant engineer. acknowledge that there are plenty of people that have much more raw ability than me, and that given my exact path they would be much farther ahead (just look at koty here). that is ok. be at piece with the path God has laid out for me. and instead figure out how God has gifted me. learn how i can play to those strenghts. and how i can work to strategically work on my weaknesses. work at developing more self awareness in this area.
	- talk to yang openly about how i want honest feedback, i want to know what i can do better, i want blunt feedback. i want to grow. bring this up specifically in our next 1:1.