#  Thursday, 14 October, 2021

## Something significant from today?

This monday, Aunt Joyce sent an email sharing that she has inoperable breast cancer. I just finished writing back to her, through tears and a deep ache in my heart. Its kinda odd the connection I feel to her. I have literally not seen her since back when we lived in Kyrgyzstan. She reached out to my in the wake my divorce, the same old Aunt Joyce. And even though it had been so long, it felt like this steady thread of unconditional love and care that ran right back to those days in Kyrgyzstan...uninterupted even though it was silent for many years.

I've lamented and been saddened by feeling like there were many people I valued that did not come alongside my side during the hardest times. But in reflection, Aunt Joyce belongs with people like Brett, who sought me out and reassured me they were there. She always tells me she prays for me daily, I and I beleive it. She told me in this letter that she would continue praying for me daily "as long as she could". Thank you God for letting me encounter some of the saints, that so well embody the kind of love and warmths and acceptance and care that are this glimpse into who you are. Like even from a distance I know and can feel how much she loves me steadily. What a gift she has been to me. 


## What am I greatful for?
  
## What would make tomorrow great and how can I improve from today?

## What am I thinking about, relfecting on, learning?

# Time Specific:

## What do I feel like God is asking of me financially? What does the story of the Rich Young ruler mean for Lara and I?