#  Tuesday, 14 December, 2021

We just got back from having dinner with Grandpa, the fam, and Lara. They met for the first time. It really didn't go quite like I had hoped.

- I'm sad (and feel bad for them) that they tried so hard to get a nice, real christmas tree but they could only get this dead thing, and that it still cost them 40 bucks. I have this part of me that wants everything to be great, no dissapointments for my family. I want to shield them from the consequences of frugality. I want them to have and enjoy all the good things the US has to offer when they are here.
- Mom made this non so great mayonaise salad dish, and I was embarassed. I know it kinda grossed out Lara, and I let this look come across my face when I asked. I know mom saw my face. Its not even a dish she has ever made before. Normally she just makes plain salad and its great. And I simulateously felt embarassed about that being what Lara was fed, I felt sad that Mom clearly put effort into it and that I reacted poorly by letting her know I didn't like it. It just felt shitty all around. I should have just had some of it, hid my displeasure, and then talked to Lara later about how it wasn't very good. 
- we sat around a table that was too small, eating mediocre little ceasar's pizza, with not enough chairs. and the energy was just a little awkward and wasn't flowing well.
- Grandpa made a comment when we left- he said its nice to put a face to the body to Lara. and then he said something about "decrepid", which sounded like he called her that. Of course he definitely didn't mean that, and Lara didn't take it personally. i don't know if he was trying to say something else or if he just stuck his foot in his mouth. But know I think thats how she's going to primarily remember him.
- Mom asked us if we wanted any cookies when we were leaving. We both said we were good and left. I should have just taken at least one for the road. She bought them for us, she wanted to make us feel welcome. Even if I didn't feel like it, I should have done beter, gotten over my bit of embarassment from the whole night, and just embraced it.

What to do differently:
- Embrace my family fully with their strengths and their weaknesses. Don't try to hide it. Don't try to change it. Speak openly to Lara about the good and the bad. 
- Just be present, enjoy the time. Enjoy everyone, even if its a little bit awkward. Take more photos. 