#  Thursday, 23 September, 2021

## Something significant from today?

- Had a super interesting chat with Warren (from Locus) today. He reached out to my out of the blue yesterday and asked to catch up. I figured it was probably about a job opp. We set up a time for today and ended up talking for almost 2 hours. He was indeed trying to recruit me to his startup (a Tech stars startup that he met through the program) that is doing ML/Ds work for the gov't around agriculture and Corona. I was just talking to Chin May in our last chat about Locus and Warren had come up so it was wild timing that Warren reached because I had been thinking recently about what he was up to. He has been in a remote Peruvian village living with his local GFs family since before the pandemic. He is working part time for the techstars startup (10-20 hours) and loves his setup. Im glad to see how well he is doing.
- Had a great time spending most of the day yesterdya with BAZ. We hung out at the house for a while, then went to Chuys, and then HEB / Walmart for some shopping.
- I had lunch with Chuck yesterday. I did bring up the wrestling I'm going through with Lara and our future, how she didn't fit the traditional box, how conservative christians would say im being really unwise. He immediately started shaking his head. I could immediately tell that he didn't think it was as big of an issue, and he was more interested in whether I had done the work to process and heal from my divorce. His response was "Lara is one of the kindest people I have met", and that "from my perspective she has a faith, is asking great questions, and but just doesn't know how to quite articulate it right now". We talked about the boxes we tend to setup between the sacred and secular, how misguided conversion efforts can be, and and how everything is on a continuum. It was very refreshing to talk through that and to at least have the stamp of approval on my journey and exploration with her. To not feel judgement, to have our journeys seen and affirmed.


## What am I greatful for?

- It sucks that I don't get another week off. But I need to remember that I feel as though I left on good terms, and that uiltimately its more important that I find a sustainable framework for balancing relationships, work, growth, rest than it is to rely on longer times of breaks. And the reality is I've had a full week with not many demands, I've gotten some loose ends tied up, and I've set a good framework for moving forward, spent good time with BAZ, and have had some time to move at my own pace. I'm grateful for this time, and would probably be feeling similiarly at the end of 2 weeks as I do at the end of 1 week.
- If I need a little more motivation: think of this in terms of the fact that I'm earning $3,365 from this upcoming week. Conversely, I would be spending that amount to take the week off. Its very questionable if I would get that value from the money. Instead start looking forward to establishing myself on good footing, and taking time off later this year.

## What would make tomorrow great and how can I improve from today?

- Do high value, restorative things. Don't veg out.

## What am I thinking about, relfecting on, learning?

