#  Sunday, 12 December, 2021

Reflections on making a decision in these next 3 weeks:

- I hate the sense of feeling rushed into a big decision. This is never a decision I should pressured into making.

- Realistically there is not something significant that will change or add more context if I were to give myself another month or two. So I also need to be realistic about that part.

- Engagement is not marriage. Moving forward now still gives us more time to concretely plan out our future and next steps. We would still have time to continue digging in intentionally

- I really want to finish my therapy with Gene. I want to wrap that up, I want to have finally dealt with the traumatic stuff. I want to have done the work to put asside the fear of commitment, I want to finish addressing that.

- I think that deep down I am ready to make this next step. I think its really important for me to finish my therapy stretch with Gene. There are fears, there is going to be a sense of trepidation. But I also feel so good about our realtionship and I love her so much. We have dug into so much, and I simply can't remove all the uncertainties. At this stage I just can't image life without her, I can't imagine a future without her. I think I am ready.


Things to prioritize now:
- Journaling, reflection prayer
- Finish reading marriage book
- Dig deep into therapy. Start doing some of that prework + exploring those fears now
	- Fear of getting jealous / of her betraying my trust. Fear of her giving up.
	- Fear of anger bubbling up and overflowing
	- Fear or apathy taking over, when it gets too hard


Things I would like to see / do during the engagement period:
- Do a devotional together. Find some meaningful way for both of us to discuss and engage with scripture throughout the week.
- Serve together. Start taking steps to live out our faith by helping the least of these together
- Attend a different type of church? I would feel better about the future if I felt like we could find a church more in the Anglican realm that she could still connect with.
- Do premarital counseling