#  Tuesday, 7 September, 2021

## Something significant from yesterday?

I've got Millie with me and I was really worried when she injued her foot chasing the ball this past Saturday. Thankfully she is definitely on the mend and today she was fully back to her perky self, being feisty, wanting to go to the park and wanting to explore and run around. I'm still trying to keep her mellower and trying to keep her from running but its great being able to just be present and to enjoy the time with her. I don't take any of it for granted, and its hard knowing that any time could be the last.

## What am I greatful for?

As much as my life with Millie didn't play out the way I wanted or hoped, and as much destruction as the divorce has caused, I think we have worked  out just about the best arrangement I could have hoped for. Millie is loved dearly by Jenn and I. I still get to see her fairly regularly and Jenn has pretty much always let me see her when I ask. Millie has had a great life being loved by both of us. She has been relatively healthy for these 11 years and still going strong. At some time probably not too far away that will change, but I am grateful for the life and the time I've had with her. I love her dearly. 
  
## What would make today (tomorrow) great?

Get my habits done. Commit to myself. Focus on action over obsessive planning and systems.

## What can I improve on from (today) yesterday?

Take time to fully set out and review my goals at the start the day. Set out with direction and a goalline in mind.