#  Tuesday, 16 November, 2021

Regarding how I would imagine thinking about having a gay kid:
- I would struggle and be sad, because of the difficulty they would face in navigating faith and navigating the nuance. I would struggle because of the additional challenges in life, I would struggle because they wouldn't likely a traditional family.
- I would love and accept them as best as I could.
- As far as raising kids from a young age:
	- I personally would naturally want to raise them with the structure, with clarity around things like gender and identity. I do worry about introducing concepts of fluid gender and having to figure out if you are straight or not, when for most people statistically that is not the case. I do think it could be adding an extra layer of unecessary confusion. 
		- I also know that its impossible to not be surrounded by that in this day and age. But I will say this is something I worry about at times. I wonder if we would have different ideas about how to approach this.
		- I want you to know that I think I have a more nuanced view of this than it might seem. I think there is a lot of grace for all of us. Its not my place to judge, I've got enough of my own problems to worry about. I really at this stage see it as a matter between an individual person and God, rather than saying that if you are a person of God, at least within my framework, that it is always a good thing or the right thing. I beleive God has every right to ask hard things of us, and that hard things can come about for a reason. There are straight people that have choosen celibacy since the very earliest days of Christianity. 

Things I need to consider for myself in this area:
- How many gay people of faith are pushed away from community vs drawn to it because someone dissaproved or expressed caution to them? Its not even close, to the point where you could say almost the only outcome, especially from family is negative. If someone is going to take the hard path, it needs to be a path they fully owned.
- The statistics about suicide and depression for people who are gay and in places where there is condemnation vs in places where there is acceptance is staggering. Would I want to even risk being any kind of contributing factor towards that for my child?
- Would I rather have them know God as love and accepting a much higher odds of them being in a progressive, accepting faith community or choose a much higher odds of them turning their back entirely on a legalistic, traditional faith.