#  Tuesday, 7 December, 2021

What are Lara and I's differences?


- We are at very different places in our faith journey
	- I beleive she is moving and progressing in her walk towards God, but her final destination is unknown. The degree to which she full embraces faith and a relationship with God is unknown.
	- There is a chance down the road that we would approach big decisions involving life values and direction differently due to the differences in our faith
	- There is a chance we will struggle to find a faith community that both of us enjoy and feel comfortable with. There is a chance we will struggle to find a place that we both feel good about raising kids in.

- I am more vocationally oriented with what I want to do with my life. I think she is more concerned about stress levels and feeling a sense of fullfillment or satisfaction with work. We are not totally different, but approaching work from slightly different angles.

- Our views on sexuality are very different. This stems all the way back to how we view sex, our own sexual histories. 
	- Lara views sex much more casually, as something not something that needs to be connected to the full commitment of a relationship. When it comes to raising kids, she would be want to impart a more sex-positive attitude
	- I am more conflict and have more points of hypocrisy in my apporach, but at my core I still hold to a more conservative sexual ethic. I would want to be more conservative in the way that I taught my kids about sexuality. While she is admittedly much more consistent and baggage free, I still am stuck beleiving on thing and living another way. I'm not sure my path is actually better than hers, but I can't shake the feeling like mine is safer and closer to a God honoring way.

- Our philosophies of money
	- I tend to spiritualize money, possesions, generosity, frugality and connect them to the ideas underneath. I feel like my parents approach to money and living simply is at the very least an ideal embedded deep in my DNA. and even where I don't follow it fully, I respect it and its really important to me that Lara at least cognitively appreciates it and sees the value in that type of choice, even though I don't expect the same for us
	- Given Laras background absent of faith and with lots of means, its really quite amazing how similiar we are from a pragmatic standpoint. We both really value saving and living within our means. We both have a similiar approach to splurging in some areas. But her approach to money is missing the same sense I have around tithing, generousity, and (at least an idealized sense of) simple living.