#  Friday, 9 July, 2021

## Whats on my mind?

### Feeling uncertainty and fear about the path of spiritual growth

Father I feel stuck right now. I look at these behaviors in my life that I know most would say I need to change in order to be conformed to you. And some of them I know I need to change. And then in some areas, I wonder if they are really that big of an issue or if I am carrying legalistic guilt with me that I don't need to carry.

Father forgive me where I am letting myself be decieved. Forgive me for thinking I know better. Help me to truly see what you are asking me to change this week. Help me to truly see what my next step is.

I feel despair because I am so aware of the absolute insufficiency of my own willpower or desire to change. The fact is that I don't want to change, I like my control. I like comparmentalizing my life in a way that lets me tell myself I am growing and taking steps towards you, but that also preserves my comfort and control.

Father forgive me for my insinerity and my wavering. Father help me to do what I cannot do. Help me to learn how to lean on your for the strength to move forward. Father strenthen my convictions where they need to be strengthened. I declare that I want to open myself fully to you, even as my behaviors show otherwise. I ask you to send your Holy Spirit to enter into my heart and to do the rennovation and to bring about the change you desire. Help me to respond how I need to respond.

I feel discouraged and uncertain about how I even structure this process. I want to cling to some system, som clear steps that give me a sense of control and certaintly. I want the comfort of being in control so that I can stay in the driver seat and go at my own pace, picking and choosing how this takes shape.

Father I want to trust you to make clear each next step. Help me to be perceptive to what my part needs to be each step of the way. Help me to be ok to let go of the steering wheel and trusting you to steer wherever you want. Help me to be ok with the mystery of this process, and to trust your timing and your goodness and provision for me each step of the way.

I am scared to reveal myself or my struggles to other. I want this to be this individual journey that I can take so that I'm not accountable or beholden to others. I'm scared of being challenged or feeling obliged to change due to peer pressure. I'm scared of being judged by others, or not being understood by others.

Father help me to open up to the people I need to open up to. Help me to trust you with the people that you do bring alongside me, seeing them as your agents and help to me in this moment. Bring about wise, kind, humble people that I can be on this journey with. Bring about a safe community where I can truly encounter and grow in to know you better, and to be shaped by you. Lead me to a community where I can get a true taste of community as you inteded it to function.

## Something significant from yesterday?

## What am I greatful for?
  
## What would make today great?

## What can I improve on from yesterday?

