#  Monday, 6 December, 2021

What are Lara and I's important similarities that ground our relationship?

- We can both communicate deeply, with self awareness and honestly to one another. We both assume the best of the other person's intentions around heavy things. We both value honesty and not playing games. We value shooting straight and getting to the heart of the issue.
- We both approach our relationship with intentionality, wanting to know what we can do better and how we can make the other feel more loved.
- We are both willing to work to grow in our relationship. When one person raises an issue, a book, something to listen to, we have always been eager to engage.

- We laugh so much together. I genuinely think she is one of the funniest people I know. We share a really oddball sense of humor and I don't think I've ever laughed so much with another person.
- We both genuinely like each others families. We both value family and deeply hold those relationships close.
- We enjoy spending our free time and recharging similairly. We have pretty close desires for enjoying recharging at home, with sprinkled in social activies. 
- Our approach to finances is similiar. We are both fairly frugal for our income. We both beleive in saving, not spending with excess. Given each of our incomes, I think the average person at our level would probably spend much more freely. 

- Our approach to decision-making is similiar. When it comes to weighing options, to exploring, to navigating issues- I feel like we are able to talk on the same level and talk through things as partners well.
- Our sensibilities around the types of people we like is very similiar. I think we both find similiar behavior annoying and appreciate similiar types of people.
- We both put a similiar level of care into our health and appearance. We both value staying fit and looking good. But I dont think either one of us goes overboard.
- We will both stand up for ourselves and our views, but I think we both know which battles to pick and will let smaller things go (happened with the prenup talk)

- We both think broadly similiarly about political issues.
- We both love animals and the environment

- I think we are very sexualy compatible. Neither of us is super adventerous, but we approach it with a shared sense of wanting to hear the others desires and wanting to meet them there. I think we have similiar libidos (but hard to say without having lived together).
