#  Tuesday, 21 September, 2021

## Something significant from today?


- Got up and went for a run right awat. Got my oil changed and state inspection. Called grandpa. Then had a very productive afternoon actually doing the project work, not just the research. 
- Went to see Lara tonight. Its clear she is a little meloncholy and that is because of our relational uncertainty. That kills me.
- About to go pick up BAZ from the aiport in 2 hours (at 11:40pm)

## What am I greatful for?

- thankful that ive made some good progress towards the things that are important
  
## What would make tomorrow great and how can I improve from today?

- Id like to spend a little more time over the next couple days truly feeling like I got to relax and rest and restore. Be more intentional about this, not just trying to be super productive every day.

## What am I thinking about, relfecting on, learning?

Thoughts on a future with Lara, and where our relationship is heading

Father, 

You know how much I love Lara, you know the ins and outs of our relationship. You know where I have been resistant to you, you know how I desire with all my heart that she would encounter you in a full sense. 

Deep in my heart I her to be the one I take this next step with. Yet I know that conventional christian wisdom would look at this is unwise, foolish, and a setup for heartbreak and disaster. Our relationships doesn't fit within the traditional confines of evangelical relationships. Its harder because the only examples I can find from others that are in inter-faith marriages seem to be people who don't seem to place faith at so much of the center of their lives. And so maybe thats because sensible people of faith, who put a high priority on their personal faith, necessarily feel its essential to be on the same page. 

Is the individual pursuit of faith necessarily tied to the corperate pursuit in a partner? Clearly not- there are many faithful God-loving folks whose spouse is not within the faith. For some that is a great pain, for others they make due. Maybe some others can even thrive in this, but I just have yet to encounter it. And I stand on the peripherals as it is, so its just not a big pool to choose from. 

I feel like we can work through it. But Father I acknowledge my disposition to just see what I want to see. I acknowledge that you know better than me. 

Please make it clear to us both. Please help us to dig into this. I pray desparately for her to move into a genuine commitment of faith that would alleviate this tension. If she does not move there, then please help to surface the issue that we would faith and where we would tangibly be divergent, so that we can address the issues head on rather than having to wrestle with abstractions that become much harder to reckon with. 

Help me to hold this with an open hard. I trust you. I want to follow you in this. I ask for your grace and mercy towards both of us in the area of our relationship. I pray that we would come to unity and find a place of synergy and alignment in pursuing a lifelong faith in the context of our relationship. Please bring wisdom- be it from writings, scripture, other people of faith. I am so scared of losing her, but I want to listen. Please grant me the courage and help me to be intentional about digging into this with her. I need you. We need you in this. 

