#  Saturday, 18 September, 2021

## Something significant from yesterday?

- yesterday marked my last day at Yonder. I went out to happy hour with the crew on Thursday after demos to Cosmic. They always feel a little bit forced and awkard for me personally due to now having the types of bonds there I hoped for, but I am glad I spent that last time with the crew. I felt a little sadder than expected yesterday, feeling appreciative of the good parts of Yonder. Despite the struggles with team dynamics and the lack of the relationships I hoped for, Yonder has been good to me and I'm grateful for such a supportive team and all that I did learn here on the job. Yonder played a key role as a stabilizing force and safe place to have work life balance when I really needed it as I've stabilized my life over the last 2 years. I look back seeing the faults, but appreciating the place its been and thankful for how God provided for me over this time. 

## What am I greatful for?
  
- grateful for 2 productive years at Yonder, grateful for the change that is to come with Bond
- thankful for my morning chat with Mom and Dad and that they are such a safe, supportive place for me to work out my journey
- grateful to have come across "The Critical Journey" via Dustin, already feeling like it is speaking to me only 2 chapters in. I've gaining an appreciation for the journey I have been on, being less scared of where I am going and feeling more safe that God is guiding me, even in the midst of my failings,  my stubborness, my sin. 

## What would make today great?

- It feels so good to stick to the plan when I set up tasks and then knock them down. The hard part is just getting started and them I end up in autopilot mode and can often cruise through a really productive afternoon that is so much more rewarding than just vegging out.

## What can I improve on from yesterday?

- start off the morning strong. avoid the temptation to veg out with my phone in bed for so much time each morning.